wow this look inside the Apple Vision
Pro enables us to learn things that
would otherwise be nearly impossible
without destroying the device but the
Neptune CT scanner that we just got lent
from Luma field does so much more than
just spit out a 2D image like this one
it can stitch together hundreds or even
thousands of 2D x-rays into a full 3D
model come over and take a look oh look
at this here's all the little magnets
for the optional Zeiss lenses here's the
worm drives for the automatic ipd
adjustment we've actually got a really
cool one where we isolated those
components so we can see the whole
mechanism and if you look closely in
this view you can see every single BGA
solder joint on the chips on the board
pretty darn impressive for not removing
any of the screws which by the way are
convenient much easier to find now if we
wanted to take the iix it approach and
depending on the tuning which we're
going to talk about in more depth later
we can even zoom in Far Enough check
this out check this out look at this
that we can see this message from our
sponsor thorum check out their Rings
watches and necklaces made from unique
materials like gibian meteorite and
ethically sourced antlers you can check
them out at the link below and use code
LT to get 20% off without looking too
closely at the spoilers behind me let's
do that again but this time with a Sony
dual sense controller because it really
shows off both the power and the
versatility of the Neptune CT scanner
like before we're going to mount our
device to foam Chuck it in the machine
close the hatch and enable the
X-rays I don't think that's ever going
to get old once all that's done we get
this view you can think of this less
like a picture and more like a shadow of
the controller but instead of a light
Shadow it's an x-ray Shadow so the
lighter areas here are where the less
dense materials like plastic allow much
of the X-ray radiation to pass through
to our sensor the darker areas like
these ones are the denser usually metal
Parts like these screws or these giant
vibration Motors that much more
effectively block our photons we then
take hundreds of these images from
different angles and upload them to Luma
Field's Voyager Cloud platform which
does a bunch of maths to spit out this
and I don't think this is ever going to
get old either this is so cool this scan
would have taken a couple of hours and
you can actually see here we can flip
our way through all of the raw x-rays
that made up our 3D image then by moving
the attenuation slider we can look at
the different densities of materials in
the controller for instance if we slide
it all the way over we can see the air
around the controller and then going the
other way it removes the plastic first
and then we can keep on going until it's
broken down to just steel and solder it
offers up a number of different views
that can be extremely helpful depending
on what you want to see the one we're
looking at here allows us to go through
the controller layer by layer so we can
see the exact density of the capacitors
on the trackpad for example we can see
the rolls in the battery something that
you definitely can't examine safely
under normal circumstances and we can
even look inside the rumble motor to see
how it's built that is so cool we've
been having an absolute Field Day
scanning basically everything that'll
fit in the machine like this Buzz
Lightyear from the mom and pop TCH shop
oh look there's his two infinity and
beyond voice box uh we also did this
high heel shoe when we were trying to
figure out how to mount an adorable
scary mouth to the bottom of it at a
ubiquity access point to have a look at
their antenna configuration and this
power supply to see if we can use the
Neptune to non-destructively inspect
solder joint quality the answer is sort
of is but let's back up a bit aren't CT
scanners for medical applications and
why doesn't this one look like a
doughnut
well while the main principles are the
same between the Luma field and a
medical CT scanner there's one main
difference between the two in the Luma
field we rotate the object while in a
medical CT scanner we rotate the scanner
itself also those things freaking rip
and for a good reason humans are not
great at staying still for a very long
time and this is especially true of
their heart and their lungs so a human
scanner needs to be able to do a full
360° scan in a fraction of a second or
the motion blur from your organs doing
inconvenient things like keeping you
alive is going to ruin the image another
reason medical CT scans go so fast is
radiation an x-ray machine creates
ionizing radiation which can potentially
lead to inconveniences like cancer if
you're exposed for too long so doctors
are usually willing to give up some AC
accuracy if it reduces how long a
patient has to stay in there finally
since humans aren't particularly dense
medical CT scanners also aren't
particularly powerful the Luma field
though by contrast is powerful enough to
see through steel so uh do not your hand
here ever at all non-living objects
though like this screwdriver available
on LTT store.com don't move unexpectedly
and can be exposed to x-rays pretty much
indefinitely without concern and the
easiest way to keep them in there is
floral foam as the name suggests it's
designed to hold flowers but it also
happens to work great for industrial CT
scanning since it's extremely low
density makes it virtually invisible in
our scans one note is that it's very
important to place your objects at a
slight angle because flat surfaces can't
be seen if they're parallel to the
x-rays now that we've got our object
secured we can place it on the table and
begin setting up our scan what we want
to do is line it up as best we can with
our x-ray emitter the x-rays leave here
and they go across the machine in a cone
shape so we get the highest detail very
close to the emitter right
here oh I pumped it with my shoulder
jeez we get the highest detail very
close to the emitter right here and as
you guys just saw the table can be
reconfigured it can move up down left
right and closer and farther from the
emitter the problem with being in close
is that we sacrifice maximum object size
so we could do something like this right
around here but if we wanted to scan
something as large as Buzz here we can
but he's going to have to go way at the
back of the chamber and we are going to
give up some detail after the x-rays
pass through our object they hit this
piece of carb carbon fiber right here
called the scintillator the scintillator
turns our x-rays into visible light for
two reasons the first reason is that
x-rays are famous for going through
things which includes image sensors I
assume that's bad yes yes that checks
out and two image detectors for visible
light are cheap like budget phones have
three of them cheap so ctil lator it is
anyway we can guess that the screwdriver
is going to look good right about here
close the door and give her a look see
what are the odds I nailed this oh I
didn't but hey remember
this
neat now that we've ensured that we're
not going to cut off our object over the
entire rotational range we're going to
go ahead and set our scan parameters to
10 minutes this is going to be a pretty
rough quick one and then we click
optimize and start scan now for most of
the scans that we do here the machine is
going to take 900 individual x-rays
slightly rotating the object then
pausing for each exposure super quick
scans like the one we're doing right now
though are going to keep the center
table slowly rotating for the entire
scan in order to save some time hey it's
done which I guess raises a question um
was it safe for us to be standing here
while it was doing that aren't x-rays
you know
radiation okay well first I just want to
clarify that although Luma field does
produce ionizing radiation it's not
radioactive so that means the second the
beam is turned off there is zero
radiation from both the machine itself
and from anything that was inside it so
the only real concern is preventing
x-rays from escaping from the machine
while it's on but as it turns out that's
pretty simple you just uh cover the
whole thing in lead so much lead in fact
that we had to rent a special heavy duty
for lift in order to unload this thing
at the back is three 8in lead plating
and then around all the other sides is
a/4 in of lead all of which is verified
during installation to have no radiation
leaks there's in fact so much lead
around this thing that while the scanner
is on you can stand right beside it and
experience a reduction in the amount of
radiation that you're receiving because
it will block radiation from the Sun the
radio acve materials in the ground below
you and even that banana that your
colleague is eating my devious plan to
poison Linus is foiled again and also
his
insides wow all things considered the
quality of this is pretty okay like
obviously it's not as good as the longer
scans but between the Reconstruction and
the raw x-rays themselves there's a good
chance that even a quick scan like this
can tell us what we want to know like we
we can see that oh a bit is missing so
we managed to spot that but there's also
a lot that this scan can't tell us like
you can see the plastic around the bits
here is just kind of a mess and there's
no real detail in the ratchet mechanism
so let's try this again but this time
we're going to mess around with the
manual settings first the main reason
that the plastic in our first scan looks
so strange is a phenomenon called beam
hardening the X Source in our Luma field
produces polychromatic x-rays which is
to say that we have a range of low
energy and high energy photons that are
getting shot across the scanner the
problem is the low energy photons get
absorbed first while the high energy
photons get through meaning that the
first layer of material is always going
to show up darker than the last bit of
material which can lead to some of the
weirdness that we just saw there's two
main ways around this the first is to
use monochromatic x-rays where all of
the light that is emitted is at the same
energy level but unfortunately achieving
this requires a synchrotron or a linear
accelerator why do those sound so
expensive because they are so instead
Luma field simply gets rid of most of
the low energy photons by using one of
the copper filters that you're going to
see ah there we go on this wheel right
here they range from .5 mm to 6 mm
depending on how hard you want the beam
the trade-off though is that the thicker
the filter the less exposed the image is
going to be meaning that you need to
increase the scan time it's actually
pretty similar to how an ND filter works
on a film camera which if you think
about it can actually be said for all of
the settings on the Luma field let's set
up the screwdriver scan again but
manually this time exposure time 46
seconds 2 and 1/2 mm and
scan scan
whatever it doesn't really matter
because we're going to movie Magic this
thing one cooking show Trick later we've
got this there is still a little bit of
weirdness in the plastic but our better
exposure settings have given us a
dramatically better look inside
especially the metal portions of the
screwdriver we can now see inside the
ratchet and we can tell how far the
Press fit portions are inserted we can
also see exactly where the magnet ended
up in the shaft and we can even see the
individual teeth on the ratchet these
are all things that were not as apparent
on a quick 10-minute scan with that said
for good results you don't always need
to spend 12 hours irradiating apart the
screwdriver just happens to be a
particularly difficult example thanks to
the steel and plastic that are very
close together for an entirely plastic
part you can get excellent results in
half an hour with aluminum parts taking
more like 4 hours and steel okay yeah I
anything with steel in it is probably
best left overnight but this raises a
big question besides just looking really
really cool what is the point of all of
this and who needs one well the most
obvious one is looking at the inside of
an assembled part for things that you
can only see while it's assembled like
for example the squish of an O-ring or
how much your battery pins are getting
compressed once the cover is closed it's
also great for validating injection
molding or c casting like you could
check for bubbles inside an alternator
casing and you could see the deviation
between the finished part and what was
originally designed in the software
there is one thing we should clarify
though although it's unlikely that we'll
damage electronics by looking at them in
the Luma field it is possible after
being exposed to ionizing radiation for
a couple of hours bits can flip in flash
memory and if that happens to the wrong
bit whether it's the you know storage on
your phone or the
bios chip on your GPU whatever that is
is going to be no worky fortunately Luma
field has done the research on this and
they've got a helpful article on how to
calculate safe exposure levels to ensure
that our phones and our gpus come out as
happy as clams as for exactly what we
are going to be using the Luma field for
well I don't know guys the sky is kind
of the limit here or well roughly the
size of a basketball is the the real
limit oh and also materials um gold it
turns out is just too dense to blast
through but neither of those limitations
have stopped us from making good use of
it already things we've scanned so far
include this bread sorus prototype that
we looked at to validate the factory
glue application this massive Phillips
head bit that we printed on our ridia
metal 3D printer the Luma field allowed
us to verify both that the dimensions
are correct and also that the part is
mechanically sound outside and in oh we
used it to look at the hinge mechanism
of the pixel fold we scanned a handful
of computer mice which often you can't
see the inside of without destroying and
this scan of a GPU is already live on
the LTT Labs website giving us a great
look at the processor die size the
memory chip layout and the cooler design
without needing to remove the factory
heat sink which could invalidate future
thermal testing what's really turning
heads though is not the functionality CT
scanners have existed for decades it's
the price now it is a subscription I
know I know but the Neptune starts at
$75,000 a year and includes their
Voyager software that handles all of the
Reconstruction that sounds really
expensive because it is but it starts to
sound a lot more reasonable when you
consider that a lot of industrial CT
scanners are going to require a
full-time technician to run them who's
going to put you over 7 $5,000 a year
before you actually buy a quar million
doll machine also I've said tons of
times in the past that while I don't
like subscriptions I don't mind them as
long as they give me the option to buy
the machine outright and Luma field does
the price is uh well if you have to ask
but it's intended for clients who are
working with sensitive information and
who want to do all of their processing
in-house that actually feels like it'd
be a really cool future video
a GPU F to freak process this thing
anyway it feels a little strange saying
we're going to have a link below to
where to get one of these for yourself
but some of you for sure work in R&D or
in manufacturing and are probably
already thinking about how much time
this thing could save you and then I
guess for everyone else I don't know
we'll link some of our scans so you can
check those out and in the comments
below let us know what you want to see
us scan next just like I'll be scanning
The
Horizon for our sponsor
thorum thorum has been in business for
over a decade handcrafting elegant bands
and rings out of rare materials with
rings made out of titanium Ironwood
World War II rifle stocks and even
ethically sourced antlers they've got a
ring for every taste don't eat them
though each ring comes with a free
thorum silicone activity band and an
American Walnut Wood ring box their
minimalist watches feature the same
unique materials like Hawaiian coawood
and gibian meteorite you know like the
kind from space and they even offer
necklaces now to match the same
minimalist and premium Vibes best of all
they ship to most areas worldwide and
all of their products are covered with
their lifetime warranty with over 10
years of experience and over 5,000 happy
customers thorm is there for you whether
you need a watch a wedding band or just
a cool looking ring check them out at
th.com and use code LT to get 20% off if
you guys enjoyed this video check out
the last time we got a super expensive
piece of test equipment by watching our
Emi chamber video actually we've got
some upgrades to share on that front uh
sometime in the near future you probably
don't recognize any of that gear on the
table outside it